how to lose weight counting calories
diet fads come and go but one proven way
to keep healthy is by learning how to
lose weight counting calories the need
to get educated on maintaining a healthy
lifestyle becomes more and more
imperative as obesity and the number of
weight related ailments keeps rising it
isn't just enough to eat less and
exercise more it's important to keep
track of how many calories your body
requires according to your build gender
age and height how many calories you
burn daily and how many calories you
need to take in to keep healthy when you
have this information and train yourself
to do it consistently you will have a
better grasp on your own body's needs
and be able to customize your diet and
exercise plan accordingly here are
guidelines on losing weight by counting
calories 1 find out how many calories
you burn daily this is the amount of
calories you normally burn without
exercise just by simply going about your
regular daily activities it is actually
very simple for men multiply your body
weight by 10 then to this sum add twice
your body weight for example if you
weigh 200 pounds the formula would be
200 times 10 plus 200 times 2 thus 2,000
plus 400 equals 2,400 you will need 2400
calories to go about your routine
functions for women multiply your weight
times 10 then add your original weight
so if you weigh 120 pounds multiply that
by 10 you get 1200 plus 120 you will
need 1320 calories you should add the
calories you burn during exercise to
this equation exercise machines and
online calculators will provide you
information on how many calories you
burn according to the exercise you do if
you exercise regularly your daily
requirement plus the number of calories
burned is your daily calorie requirement
to calculate your daily calorie intake
track your meals for a week or two to
monitor how many calories you take in on
the average eating your normal diet keep
a journal and carefully note all the
food you eat and beverages you drink and
calculate the corresponding calorie
counts on each add up your daily intake
every day and note the difference
between these and your daily calorie
requirement 3 adjust your calorie intake
versus your daily requirement once you
have a running record of your calorie
intake for say 2 weeks you should be
able to establish the pattern of your
calorie count if you're regularly taking
in a surplus of calories against the
number that you burn daily those extras
will be stored in your body as fat and
will reflect on the scales as weight
gain if you eat fewer calories than you
burn you will lose weight adjusting your
calorie intake doesn't always mean
eating less it's also about eating right
instead of filling your plate with
high-calorie high-fat food eat fruits
and vegetables avoid sauces fattening
fixings sweets and alcohol forgo soda
and energy drinks drink more green tea
learn to appreciate and get used to fish
lean meat poultry whole grains and drink
plenty of water daily these slight
changes to your diet will result in a
healthier lifestyle for you coupled with
exercise especially interval training
you will see your calorie intake go down
and your calorie burning capacity
improve thus helping you reduce weight
when adopted as a lifestyle you have a
better chance at weight loss through
this holistic approach then through
adopting new diet fads or exercise
trends and you are able to manage your
weight keeping it where you want it
simply by keeping track of your calorie
count once you get used to the habit
counting calories will become second
nature this is how to lose weight
counting calories